Improving the Datasource guide (#33634)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/datasource.adoc

and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////

> [id="data-sources-configure"]

Reviewer: FWIW we completely ignored one of the major problems of these refactorings: we're going to create dead links by changing anchors all over the place. For example https://quarkus.io/guides/datasource#tldr won't redirect to the correct section anyway.

Not requesting this gets fixed here though. This is probably something that should be discussed more globally.

Author: @yrodiere Thank you for this feedback, Yoann.

ID=datasource**_s_**, filename=datasource.adoc, anchors=<<ID,Description>>, crosslinks=xref:datasource.adoc#tldr[Description].

ID should be derivation of a filename, which is not the case here. ( example: datasource.adoc -> ID="datasource"....)
I search the repo for the `tldr ` and it returns 0 results, thus I should not break the link you shared. It is not working since the #tldr section doesnt exist anymore (can create a redirection PR for it).
Also, the link you posted would be written in the .adoc like this xref:datasource.adoc#tldr[TLDR], thus the change of the ID is not playing a part here, since the link is a derivation of the filename.

Searched for `<<datasource/s,` but also with 0 findings. Putting this back just in case I am missing something or I searched poorly :)

Then, as you proposed, it would be good if we would move/delete unrelated content to this "Reference", thus we will be creating even more anchors/links changes. This should be tuned as a last step of this refactor. But I would do this lately, when I will have some clearance about future plans :)

However, it is possible (and I will know this next Thursday) that this file will be taken to RHBQ. If not, I would need to ask you for a cooperation in which we would: 1) Prepare the Datasource reference guide 2) tweak the other 3 related guides.

Reviewer: >  Also, the link you posted would be written in the .adoc like this xref:datasource.adoc#tldr[TLDR], thus the change of the ID is not playing a part here, since the link is a derivation of the filename.

I was actually talking about links from other websites, e.g. stackoverflow.

> It is not working since the #tldr section doesnt exist anymore

Right that's what I meant. Since we're changing sections about everywhere, we probably need to talk about how we' may be wreaking havoc on existing resources online (e.g. stackoverflow) that link to our docs and whose links will become (slightly or completely) dead.

But again that's not something we'll fix in the scope of this PR.

Quarkus uses link:https://agroal.github.io/[Agroal] and link:https://vertx.io/[Vert.x] to provide high-performance, scaleable data source connection pooling for JDBC and reactive drivers.
The `jdbc-\*` and `reactive-*` extensions provide build time optimizations and integrate configured data sources with Quarkus features like security, health checks, and metrics.

For more information on consuming and using a reactive datasource, consult the Quarkus xref:reactive-sql-clients.adoc[Reactive SQL clients] guide.

> Additionally, refer to the Quarkus xref:hibernate-orm.adoc[Hibernate ORM] guide for details on the usage and configuration of regular clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, refer to the Quarkus xref:hibernate-orm.adoc[Hibernate ORM] guide for information on consuming and using a JDBC datasource.
```

+
You can also retrieve the password from Vault by link:{vault-datasource-guide}[using a credential provider] for your datasource.

Until now, the configuration has been the same regardless of whether you are using a JDBC or a reactive driver.
When you have defined the database kind and the credentials, the rest depends on what type of driver you are using.
It is possible to use JDBC and a reactive driver simultaneously.

==== JDBC datasource

JDBC is the most common database connection pattern, typically needed when used in combination with non-reactive Hibernate ORM.

Using a built-in JDBC driver extension automatically includes the Agroal extension, which is the JDBC connection pool implementation applicable for custom and built-in JDBC drivers.
However, for custom drivers, Agroal needs to be added explicitly.

> 

Reviewer: IMO you could skip explaining this, or move the explanation to the list item where you explain what to do with a custom JDBC driver.

Most people will simply use built-in extensions and won't care about this (and may even get confused).

Author: Awesome catch. A did a little shift there. Remove the unnecessary command and replace it with the example + moved the explanation to a NOTE directly above the Agroal step. Makes great sense now (I hope :) )

. To use a JDBC datasource, start with adding the necessary dependencies:

..  For use with a custom JDBC driver, add the `quarkus-agroal` dependency to your project alongside the extension for your relational database driver:
+
[source,bash]
----
./mvnw quarkus:add-extension -Dextensions="agroal"
----

> .. For use with a built-in JDBC driver, choose and add the Quarkus extension for your relational database driver from the list below:

Reviewer: I'd put this first, since this is the most common case.

Author: Sure, will do.
